In this video, we're going to write out a couple of code examples to understand how type annotations
work, specifically with variables.
Remember, a type annotation is going to be a little bit of code that we write to help TypeScript along.
The type penetration system is kind of at odds with type inference.
So we're going to first focus on type annotations and then come along and understand how type inference
comes into play.
All right.
So I'm going to change on over to my editor and inside my project directory, I'm going to make a new
folder called Annotations.
We're going to eventually create separate files inside this directory that are all related to type annotations.
So we're going to organize them all inside of here.
Inside this folder, I'm going to make a new file called Variables, and then inside this file, I'm
going to write out my first variable declaration that has a type annotation.
So I'm going to write out const apples is going to be a number.
I'm going to set that to five like so.
So the colon and the word number right after it is our type annotation.
You're going to see syntax that looks exactly like this.
And the vast majority of TypeScript code that you work with, this type annotation is trying to tell
TypeScript that we are only ever going to assign a value of type number to the variable of apples.
If I ever tried to assign some other type of value besides a number, all very quickly see an error
message.
So for example, if I update the five right here to true, which is a boolean, I'll see an error right
away.
And it tells me that the type of true is not assignable to a type of number.
Now this is also going to work if I try to update the value assigned to that variable as well.
So if I update the keyword to let which will allow me to reassign apples, I can then reassign apples
down here a value of ten without any issue.
However, if I tried to assign it some other type of value, like a string, once again, I'll very
quickly see an error.
And once again, I see a message that says essentially you have a string and you're trying to assign
it to a variable that's supposed to be a number.
Now for the rest of this file, I want to show you some reassignments all over the place.
So I'm going to continue using the keyword, even though in just about all the declarations we're going
to add here, usually I would be making use of the const keyword instead.
Type annotations like this right here can be used with any type of value.
Remember, we just spoke about some of the different types of values inside of TypeScript.
So we've got number of strings booleans, null, void or simply null, undefined and functions, arrays
and so on.
So with every one of these different types of values, we can use a type annotation.
Let's write out a couple of examples just to understand how type annotation works with each of these
different types.
All right.
So in every case we'll write out left and then a variable name.
In this case, I'm going to call my variable speed, then a colon, then the type of value.
In this case, I'm going to say it's going to be a string and I'm going to assign it a value of fast
like so.
Once again, if I tried to assign this a value that is not a string.
So in this case, maybe a number, I'll see an error and that's pretty much it.
We're going to see that same pattern repeating every time we try to assign it a different type of value.
Let's take a look at a Boolean as well.
So let's say maybe let Hays name is going to be a boolean of true.
How about NULL?
I'll make a variable called nothing much.
I'll make that null and that's going to be assigned a value of null.
And this is kind of interesting right here.
It's our first example of where we have a value.
That has a name identical to its type.
We're actually going to see that a couple of times in TypeScript, and it's something that's a little
bit difficult to grasp once you start getting into some more complicated topics.
So we're going to have several lectures later on to understand when we're working with something that's
a value and when we're working with something that is a type.
We could also try a new variable called something like say nothing and make it undefined.
Like so.
Now we can also use type annotation with every other type of value as well.
Like we just said.
So I can use this with an instance of a class or with a built in object or just about anything you can
imagine.
So let's say that we're working with maybe a date object.
I'll say I'll put a little section header here and I'll say, built in objects.
So I can make a new variable called now.
I'll say that's going to be of type date and then I'll make a new date and assign it on the other side.
So in this case, we're once again doing the same thing we're doing up here.
We're saying that we're going to have a variable called now and we can only assign it a value of type
date.
And then on the other side, we're going to assign it an instance of a date object.
All right.
So now that we're kind of getting the idea here, let's take a quick pause.
When we come back in the next section, we'll take a look at some of the more complicated syntax that
comes up when we start working with objects, arrays and functions.
So quick pause and I'll see you in just a minute.